Today's number, 219.
That's how many hours it takes on
average for adults to go from friends to
best friends. Today's other number is
1,000. That's how many hours I've spent
with Scott Galloway. However, I still
haven't made it out of the acquaintance
zone.
Welcome to Profy Markets. I'm Edson. It
is February 19th. Let's check in on
yesterday's market vitals. The major
indices paired gains after the Federal
Reserve minutes were released. The
official record of their last meeting
reveal rising concerns over inflation.
It also showed several officials may
want to raise rates if inflation
persists. That news sent Treasury yields
climbing. Meanwhile, Bitcoin fell to
roughly $66,000.
Okay, what else is happening?
Anthropic and Open AI have grabbed most
of the headlines recently, but Chinese
companies have been busy releasing very
powerful AI models of their own. It
seems that Luna New Year, which began on
Tuesday, has become China's unofficial
launch season. Alibaba kicked things off
with Renbrain, a model designed to help
robots understand the physical world.
They also unveiled Quen 3.5, a coding
and agent focused model that is up to
five times faster than its predecessor.
Meanwhile, Bite Dance dropped Seance
2.0, a video generation tool, as well as
Duba 2.0, its deep reasoning model. And
then ZepO released GLM5, which is
engineered for agentic intelligence. The
through line behind all of these
announcements, all of these models are
reportedly matching and even beating US
competitors on multiple key benchmarks.
Okay, here to break down this season of
launches, we're speaking with Propy
Media's very own Alice Horn, co-host of
the China Decode Podcast. Alice, good to
see you.
>> Hi, Eden. Happy New Year. Happy Year of
the Firehorse.
>> Happy Year of the Firehorse. um that
seems to be part of the story here,
which is right as the Luna New Year
shows up, we see tons of new models
coming out from these Chinese companies,
these new AI models. Uh Seance, uh Duba,
uh GLM5, I mean a lot of these names are
kind of dominating the headlines at
least in China. Uh what do you make of
these new AI models that have come out
of China? Uh how important are they?
what do they mean uh for consumers and
investors?
>> Well, Ed, it's definitely true that
Chinese AI has bolted from the stables
to borrow a horse metaphor. And as you
rightly say, we've got a couple of
models that have just come out, uh
GLM. Uh we've also got Quen, the new
Quen 5 Max model that's come out. We've
also got new AI video generation models
that have taken Hollywood, I think, by
huge surprise and shock and
conststonation. But generally when I
look at the models and I've I've been
using them in the last few days, what's
clear to me is that they have improved.
They are faster. Uh they are more
cost-effective if you obviously compare
them to the closed uh proprietary models
offered by OpenAI as well as uh by
Claude for instance. Uh but really the
my frustration with this debate is that
it's apples to oranges. People are going
to use the Chinese models differently. I
think the fact that Brian Chesy, the
Airbnb CEO, says outright a couple
months ago that a lot of his engineers
are using this uh for aentic uh chat
bots uh because it's cheaper and faster
seems to suggest that the use cases for
this are very different the Chinese
models that is than the American closed
models. Firstly, a lot of engineers and
just everyday people are using and
experimenting with the Chinese models.
Quinn, for instance, they're downloading
them locally, fine-tuning them, and
using them for their particular use
cases. Uh, any kind of projects that
they may be involved in. It's it's got
improved privacy because they're
downloading it locally. It's cheaper,
often 10 to 20 times cheaper than what's
offered by OpenAI and Claude. So,
really, they're using this very
differently from say potentially you and
me, Ed. I use CLA a lot uh the
enterprise level because the reasoning
is exceptionally good when it comes to
the geopolitical analysis the financial
analysis that I'm involved in. So the
way that I think about it is that the
American models are really focusing on
precision on reasoning at the highest
level as a as a really quest for AGI.
The Chinese models are really um
figuring out how to create a market in
which everyday people, engineers,
corporates even uh downloading them
locally, experimenting, fine-tuning uh
and just capturing the benefits of
cheaper, faster models. So, I don't
think there's a direct comparison and I
think that a market exists for both
these models, so to speak, to coexist.
>> One of the things that we're also seeing
is just the benchmarking. I can't tell
how seriously I'm supposed to take these
benchmarking leaderboards. It seems that
things are constantly shifting. But when
you look at the leaderboards, when you
look at the stats on which is the best
model, which is the best performing, the
fastest, what, however you define best,
I'm not sure how they define it, the
Chinese models tend to be the best or at
least they they tend to be at the top of
the rankings. What do you make of that?
Does that mean that the Chinese models
are better? Uh does that mean they're
going to overtake the American models or
again is this perhaps maybe apples to
oranges and these these benchmarks maybe
don't make sense?
>> Well, I love that you asked that
question. I I think often that the
benchmarks can be red herrings. There's
a good Harding principle uh in computer
science that is applied to this which uh
suggests that even although they may
meet those benchmark goals and exceed
the other models uh there are certain
unquantifiable goals and performance
outcomes that they may still be inferior
in certain respects to the claudes and
the open AIs of the world. So again,
back to my previous point at I really
think that if you care about privacy and
and cheapness and speed, maybe you go
for Quen, you go for you go for
Kimmy, but if you care about, you know,
frontier cutting edge reasoning, uh,
precision, then you are still going to
favor the Clauds and the open AIs. Uh,
so it's really different universes that
they inhabit. And I think benchmarks can
often be red herrings even although
there's an incentive for these models to
come out and say that we're exceeding uh
the benchmarks of other rivals and
competitors. But again, you know, cost
is something that uh is directly
comparable. Uh it's no surprise that the
Chinese models are 10 20 times cheaper.
Uh and I think that that with cost
deflation uh inertia will continue to
favor the Chinese. At what point will
the will the cost really change and
shift the way the market works here? I
mean consumers I think they know about
open AI. They're beginning to know about
Anthropic and learning about Claude. So
there's some maybe some brand loyalty
there. But I feel like at a certain
point if you're presented with an option
that is 10 or 20 times cheaper, you go
with that option. So I guess my what I'm
a little confused about is when is that
going to happen? Is that not going to
happen? Is that not a giant concern for
a company like OpenAI or Anthropic or
even Google with Gemini?
>> Yeah. But I do think when we look at
technology diffusion and value creation,
the way that the software economy really
came out of the US and US dominated that
and the value created by software. It's
really I think going to be uh the clauds
and the open AIs uh that benefit from
the enterprise part of the value chain.
Uh the enterprise can pay for it and you
know they tend to be stickier in terms
of the subscription. So I think that
we'll end up in a world in which maybe
the majority of the value is captured by
anthropic, by open AI, but that doesn't
mean that there won't be anything left
on the table for Alibaba, for uh bite
dance, uh for Kimmy. It's just a
different market that they're
inhabiting. And we haven't even talked
about some of the other use cases.
There's uh now Chinese AI chatbot toys
that is going to be a big market, I
think. Uh, and certainly it marries well
with China's manufacturing and hardware
capabilities. So,
>> toys.
>> Toys. Yeah. There these toys that are
being sold that can speak directly to
children and teach them uh and and
interact with them in I don't know if
you've ever read read Neil Stevenson's
Diamond Age, but it's this kind of AI
primma that is part of this story. We're
already living in that diamond age, so
to speak, in this sci-fi realm. That is
one area. And then another area in which
the the I would say open AI and
anthropic have not been as competitive
is in multil language. If you look at
the models coming out of China, it makes
sense because they've been trained a lot
on on multil- language English Chinese
and other language uh data sets. They
tend to be better at uh at other
languages. And so if you're a a global
company where you care about a Chinese,
Asian speaking market, uh that could
also be quite uh an important
distinction.
One name we haven't mentioned which was
very popular about a year ago seems to
be less popular today is Deepseek.
Where does DeepSeek sit in all of this?
>> Well, I I think Deepseek is still a
leader. They still have a lot of the
highlevel AI talent and that counts a
lot when you think about the AI
competition domestically and globally.
Uh I do know for a fact although I'm not
sure if I should say this that uh
Deepseek uh is working a lot with local
governments uh with government bodies in
China uh to integrate AI into uh local
public governance and I think this is
coming at a time where you know Ed we'll
be watching with baited breath in the
next two weeks or so because the 15th
5-year plan is going to come out and
it's very very clear now that AI plus is
going to be a huge cornerstone stone of
the policy for the next 5 years. So AI
in every realm including in public
governance and and public uh service and
utilities. So Deepseek is still a
player. Uh but I think the latest models
coming out of Alibaba even Kimmy uh show
us that in China at least the AI race is
hyper competitive. It's not uh just a
duopoly uh which it's or or even
centered around three players which is
increasingly what's happening it seems
in the US is many different players and
I think they can capture different parts
of the market.
>> All right, Alice Horn, co-host of the
China Decode podcast. Alice, thank you.
Appreciate your time.
>> Thanks so much, Ed.
>> We'll be right back. And if you're
enjoying the show so far, be sure to
like and subscribe to the Profod YouTube
channel at the link below.
Support for today's show comes from
Framer. Let's say your marketing team
wants a new landing page, so the design
team mocks it up, and then your
engineering department, who's already
got too much on their plate, responds
with, "Yeah, we'll get to it." Thousands
of businesses from early stage startups
to Fortune 500s are choosing to build
their sites in Framer, where changes
take minutes instead of days to solve
this very problem. Framer's
enterprisegrade no code website builder
used by teams at companies including
Perplexity and Miro to move faster with
real-time collaboration, a robust CMS
with everything you need for great SEO
and advanced analytics that include
integrated AB testing. Your designers
and marketers are empowered to build and
maximize your.com from day one. So
whether you want to launch a new site,
test a few landing pages, or migrate
your full.com, Framer has programs for
startups, scaleups, and large
enterprises to make going from idea to
live site as easy and as fast as
possible. Learn how you can get more out
of your.com from a framer specialist. Or
get started building for free today at
framer.com/markets
for 30% off a framer pro plan. That's
for 30% off. framer.com/markets.
Rules and restrictions may apply.
Support for the show comes from Public,
the investing platform for those who
take it seriously. On Public, you can
build a multi-asset portfolio of stocks,
bonds, and options. And now, generated
assets, which allow you to turn any idea
into an investable index with AI. It all
starts with your prompt. From renewable
energy companies with high free cash
flow to semiconductor suppliers growing
revenue over 20% a year overear. You can
literally type any prompt and put the AI
to work. It screens thousands of stocks,
builds a one-of-a-kind index, and let
you back test it against the S&P 500.
Then you can invest in a few clicks.
Generated assets are like ETFs with
infinite possibilities, completely
customizable, and based on your thesis,
not someone else's. Go to
public.com/provg
and earn an uncapped 1% bonus when you
transfer your portfolio. That's
public.com/provg.
Paid for by public investing, broker
services by Open to the Public
Investing, Inc. Member FINRA and SIPC.
The advisory services by public advisors
LLC SEC registered advisor generated
assets is an interactive analysis tool.
Output is forformational purposes only
and is not an investment recommendation
or advice. Complete disclosures
available at public.com/disclosures.
We're back with property markets.
President Trump's chaotic trade policy
has rattled Europe and some countries
are weighing new methods to push back.
For Sweden, that means reconsidering its
use of the croner as its currency and
switching to the euro. The country's
finance minister just backed a formal
inquiry into euro adoption, which would
strengthen the country's trade ties to
the EU. A full embrace of the EU's
common currency would also be a vote of
confidence in the euro, just as the
dollar's dominance has fallen into
question. In the past year, the euro has
climbed 13%. Meanwhile, the dollar has
declined 9%. Okay, for more on what
Sweden's currency plans mean for the
dollar and also for the US, we're
speaking with Robin Brooks, senior
fellow at the Brookings Institution and
former chief FX strategist at Goldman
Sachs. Robin, thank you for joining us
on Profy Markets.
>> Yeah, my pleasure. Thanks for having me.
So this uh decision or we haven't
reached a decision but at least Sweden
appears to be mulling over the prospect
of ditching the croner which they've had
for years and moving over to the euro.
Uh it appears that this kind of has to
do with the relationship between the US
and Europe or at least global
uncertainty. This seems to be somewhat a
response to that. Take us through why
this is happening. Why is Sweden
considering this? So, as you know, um, a
bunch of European countries got together
back in the '90s and they decided to
form a common currency. The euro was
formed in began in 1999. There were a
bunch of countries that did not join uh,
the euro when it was created. the UK
where I'm guessing you have a little bit
of a connection and then Sweden
obviously Denmark, Poland, uh Czech
Republic, Hungary. So it's not first of
all any kind of outlier status to not be
in the Euro. Countries at the time had
referenda on whether joining the Euro
was a good idea. Sweden did one in 2003
and it was rejected by a margin of 56%
of the vote was against joining the
euro. The margin in terms of popular
opinion polls now has moved in the
direction of joining the euro. You're
totally right about that. That's mostly
about geopolitics.
So a fear that in particular Russia's
invasion of Ukraine just makes the world
less safe. The US is less of a
predictable ally. And so it must be that
some Swedes think joining the euro gives
you that extra safety. If that is what's
going on, then I think that's poor
reasoning because the euro is really
just a system of currency pegs. It
doesn't confer any kind of safety. You
just have to ask the Baltic states, for
example, Estonia, Latafia, Lithuania, do
they feel any safer from Russian
invasion because they're members of the
Euro? No. Poland, uh, the finance
minister
just said, you know, we think the Euro
is a great idea, but we prefer to be on
the outside than on the inside. Um, so I
think whether or not from a geopolitical
point of view this is a smart decision,
I think it's totally up in the air. It
sounds like dumping the crone at taking
the euro would mostly be a symbolic
gesture to say we stand with Europe uh
and and that it wouldn't really have
much impact or whatever impact it would
have would maybe not even be good for
Sweden. Is there an element of
ddollarization or debasement in this
whole conversation? I mean, one of the
big themes we've been exploring recently
is the fact that increasingly people are
wary of the dollar. They're concerned
about debt levels in the US. They're
turning to things like gold. And I I
just wonder if the euro as the next most
popular currency, if there's an argument
to be made that we should be transacting
in euros, maybe people in Sweden think
that that's the reason why you switch
over to the euro. Is taking on the
dollar a part of this conversation at
all or is that also a red herring?
>> First of all, I think you're asking
exactly the right question. There's a
survey of uh central bank reserve
managers. So these are, you know,
picture all the sovereign wealth funds
in Asia, all central banks that have
piled up tons of dollars and other
foreign exchange reserves. These guys
manage trillions of dollars. And this
survey is done by the IMF. That's once a
quarter and it surveys what is your
allocation of your reserves to dollars
versus euros versus Swiss Frank versus
Swedish corona etc. The amazing thing is
that with all the noise last year, you
know, just think back to Liberation Day,
the big drop in the dollar in April
2025, you know, as we went through the
year,
the altercations that President Trump
had with the Fed, the massive rise in
gold prices that we saw after October in
particular, the allocations that foreign
reserve managers are making to the
dollar have been totally stable. There
has been no flight from the dollar.
There's also been no flight into the
euro. That's pretty remarkable when you
think about all the noise that we've
had. So, I think the lesson that I draw
from that is the hurdle for the dollar
to lose reserve currency status, for
there to be serious dollar to basement,
it's pretty high. But again, for Sweden,
this is a really big opportunity. Sweden
traditionally has always been considered
kind of a high beta currency. It's super
volatile. You you didn't really want to
hold it because it banged around all
over the place uh on news. Most
recently, so over the course of the last
69 months, the Swedish Crona has started
trading like the Swiss Frank. So like a
safe haven currency. So when global
uncertainty goes up, for example,
liberation day tariffs, Swedish crona
actually does well. So I would put the
Swedish crona in the same bucket as
gold, silver, platinum, you name it. Um,
it is this safe asset. What exactly is
going on with dollar to basement? I
think is a separate question. And
incidentally, the dollar is up today
because the FOMC minutes talked about
hikes and that surprised the markets. So
I think there's clearly a flight to
safety. What exactly people are fleeing
from isn't quite clear yet.
>> It's interesting because foreign
exchange currencies, these are
conversations that are typically in the
purview of investors, Wall Street, think
tanks, economists, etc. But the
dolorization question has generated a
lot of heat and a lot of people are
interested in it and I think because it
communicates a possibility that this
world order that we've all known and and
lived with for so many years that where
you know the US is the dominant power
there is an a hegemony of America it's
reflected in the strength of this
currency that that may be coming to an
end and I would add you know a lot of
investors are making trades off of this
macro possibility, which is why we're
seeing what we're seeing with gold. But
it sounds like you as a real currency
expert, as the chief FX strate former
chief FX strategist uh at Goldman, it
sounds like your view is that maybe this
is a little bit overdone. Um if you're
actually looking at the the global
reserves of the dollar that actually
this isn't this is more kind of bulk
than bite. Well, I mean, we know that in
the United States, fiscal policy is kind
of out of control. Debt is on a
trajectory that is not good at all.
Deficits are out of control. The thing
is that's true for many other countries,
too. Everyone is in trouble on fiscal.
And so, in a relative sense, the United
States is worrying, but relatively
speaking, it doesn't look that bad. So
when you look at for example risk
premium in the bond market on treasuries
over other comparably measured
government bonds in other countries
actually the United States smells like
roses.
That sounds crazy. So I think where we
are is that there is a debasement trade
for sure. It's just not clear whether
that debasement trade is against the
dollar or against all fiat currencies
together. Yeah, I think the question I
always return to is sure, maybe it's
bad. What's your alternative? Exactly.
Is it the euro? Is it the UN? Is it
Bitcoin, which is also kind of bad as a
form of currency? Uh is it actually
gold? These are all very interesting
questions. We are out of time, but thank
you for joining us, Robin Brooks, senior
fellow at the Brookings Institution.
>> Thank you.
>> We'll be right back. And if you're
enjoying the show so far, be sure to
like and subscribe to the ProfG GP Pod
YouTube channel at the link below.
Support for the show comes from
Vanguard. The role of financial adviser
is to do everything you can to set your
clients up for success. There are plenty
of ways you can go about it. Maybe a
leveling up of your fixed income
strategy, but bonds can be tricky. The
market is huge, rates shift, and risks
hide in plain sight. That's why having a
partner with scale and expertise
matters. Vanguard brings both. Vanguard
bonds are institutional quality.
Institutional quality isn't a tagline.
It's a commitment to your clients. It
means top grade products across the
board. The lineup includes over 80 bond
funds that are actively managed by a 200
person global squad of sector
specialists, analysts, and traders. A
lot of firms love to highlight their
star portfolio managers. Like it's all
about that one brilliant mind making the
magic happen. Vanguard's philosophy is a
little different. They believe the best
active strategy shouldn't be locked away
with one person. They should be shared
across the team. So, if you're looking
to give your clients consistent results
year in and year out, go to see the
record for yourself at
vanguard.com/audio.
That's vanguard.com/audio.
All investing is subject to risk.
Vanguard Marketing Corporation
distributor.
We're back with Profy Markets.
So yesterday we discussed this feud that
is unfolding between the AI company
Anthropic and the Pentagon or more
specifically the Secretary of War Pete
Hegsath. And before we end here, I'd
like to unpack that story a little bit
because I think it tells you a lot about
where we are in this AI moment. So, just
to refresh your memory, one of
Anthropic's biggest customers is the
Defense Department, which is paying
hundreds of millions of dollars to use
their AI tools. But as of this week,
Secretary Hegsth has threatened to cut
ties with Anthropic. He has even gone so
far as to put them on the supply chain
risk list, which is a label that is
usually reserved for foreign
adversaries. They're also threatening to
cut ties with any company that does any
business with Anthropic at all. In some
Anthropic is now on the administration's
list. They do not like that.
Question is why? Well, it all centers
around two main disagreements. Number
one, Anthropic has told the Pentagon
that they do not want their technology
to be used for autonomous lethal
weapons, i.e. robots that kill people.
And then number two, they also don't
want their technology to be used for
domestic mass surveillance, i.e. spying
on American citizens. And according to
the Defense Department, this is a deal
breakaker. In fact, such a deal breaker
that they now view anthropic as a
potential risk to America. So, there's a
lot that is concerning about this. The
fact that we're now requiring that AI be
used for things like drone strikes, also
that we're requiring that AI be used to
spy on Americans and surveil them. These
facts are scary in and of themselves.
But what is perhaps more striking is the
hypocrisy here. The fact that this is
coming from an administration that has
long stated that this is exactly the
kind of thing we need to avoid. The
threat of government surveillance, of
big tech surveillance. Trump himself
said that one of the goals of the
campaign was to quote monitor our
intelligence agencies to ensure they are
not spying on our citizens. Jim Jordan
warned of the quote collusion of big
tech and big government. JD Vance the
vice president cautioned about companies
quote using artificial intelligence to
surveil Americans. He said I worry about
invasions of privacy. So this is exactly
the thing that MAGA was supposed to
prevent this collaboration between the
government or the deep state and also
with technology companies to surveil the
American people. And now we find
ourselves in this very ironic position
where an AI company actually doesn't
want to move in that direction. They
don't want to surveil citizens. They're
down to work with the government, but
they're not down to spy on Americans.
And for that they are being punished.
Now we can dwell on the hypocrisy here.
It is quite striking. But that might
also be missing the point. I think the
larger point is we now know where this
is all headed. And that is despite the
virtue signaling arguably from both
sides about the need to reign in big
tech to reduce the surveilling powers of
the largest corporations and of the
government. I think it is pretty clear
now that is not going to happen. AI will
be used for weaponry. AI will be used
for autonomous lethal drones and
operations. AI will be used to track
Americans, to spy on Americans, to
surveil Americans. This is simply where
we're headed now. And I should also be
pretty clear here. Most other companies
aside from Anthropic are on board for
this. Companies like OpenAI, companies
like XAI, Google, and of course,
Palanteer, they are all down. Now, the
only thing that might get in the way
here is the same thing that I wrote
about in my newsletter this week, and
that is the American people. As I've
written, AI is becoming increasingly
unpopular. Less than half of Americans
say they like AI. Less than a third of
Americans say they trust AI. And it
could be that this is the straw that
breaks the camel's back. That voters
decide, actually, we don't like this
direction. We don't want this
technology. We don't like how it's being
used. And therefore, we're going to do
something about it. We're going to vote
you out. That could happen. And I think
the political ramifications of AI is now
something that investors need to take
really seriously. We can't really ignore
it. Having said that, there are still
many Americans that don't really know
about AI, that perhaps don't really care
about AI. And so until this reaches a
boiling point, I do think that the
current trajectory is the most likely
that AI will become fused with
government. It will enable a
surveillance state. It will be used to
track people, target people, and
sometimes kill people. Everything that
MAGA said that they were supposed to
prevent, ultimately that will transpire.
That is where the trend is moving and
barring some extraordinary event that is
likely where it will end. Thanks for
watching Profy Markets from Prof Media.
If you like this episode, subscribe to
our YouTube channel and tune in tomorrow
for our conversation with Asswath Demod.